README.md, before:

# m5squared aka. wheelchair.py

**Your wheelchair, your rules.**

Python toolkit for the Alber e-motion M25 power-assist wheels. Because paying €595 for a Bluetooth remote that does less than a Python script is absurd.

Presented at 39C3 Hamburg: *["Pwn2Roll: Who Needs a 595€ Remote When You Have wheelchair.py?"](https://media.ccc.de/v/39c3-pwn2roll-who-needs-a-599-remote-when-you-have-wheelchair-py)*

## What This Does

- **Decrypt the "encrypted" Bluetooth protocol:** AES-128-CBC, nothing fancy
- **Replace the €595 ECS remote:** Same features, zero cost, more control
- **Bypass all of the in-app purchases:** All the "premium" features, free
    - Currently we support out-of-the-box: ECS remote, speed increase to 8.5km/h, parking mode. *Cruise* mode and the push counter are possible in theory, but not tested yet. Stay tuned, this will be tested soonish (it's also the ground work for replacing the knob-style remote).
- **Access dealer-only parameters:** Your wheels, your data

## The €595 Remote vs. This Script

| Feature                 | Official ECS Remote | wheelchair.py |
| ----------------------- | ------------------- | ------------- |
| Price                   | €595                | Free          |
| Read battery            | Yes                 | Yes           |
| Change assist level     | Yes                 | Yes           |
| Toggle hill hold        | Yes                 | Yes           |
| Read raw sensor data    | No                  | Yes           |
| Adjust drive parameters | No                  | Yes           |
| Works on Linux          | No                  | Obviously     |

## Quick Start

```bash
# Setup (Ubuntu/Debian)
sudo apt install python3.12-venv python3-bluez
python3 -m venv .venv --system-site-packages
.venv/bin/pip install -e .
source .venv/bin/activate

# Get your AES keys (scan the QR codes on your wheel hubs)
python m25_qr_to_key.py "YourQRCodeHere"

# Talk to your wheels
python m25_ecs.py --left-addr AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF --right-addr 11:22:33:44:55:66 \
                  --left-key HEXKEY --right-key HEXKEY
```

## Tools

| Script             | What it does                                      | 
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `m25_qr_to_key.py` | QR code → AES key (their encoding is... creative) |
| `m25_ecs.py`       | The main event: read status, change settings      |
| `m25_decrypt.py`   | Decrypt captured Bluetooth packets                |
| `m25_encrypt.py`   | Encrypt packets for transmission                  |
| `m25_analyzer.py`  | Make sense of the packet soup                     |
| `m25_parking.py`   | Remote movement control (use responsibly)         |
| `m25_bluetooth.py` | Scan, connect, send/receive                       |

## Getting Your Keys

Each wheel has a QR code sticker. That's your key to the kingdom.

1. Scan the QR code (22 characters of proprietary encoding)
2. Run: `python m25_qr_to_key.py "ABCD1234..."`
3. Get a 16-byte hex key
4. Use it with `--left-key` / `--right-key`

Both wheels have different keys. Yes, you need both.

Once you've saved your keys, consider taping over the QR codes. They're the keys to your wheels.

## Protocol TL;DR

Bluetooth SPP on channel 6. Packets look like:

```
[0xEF] [length:2] [IV encrypted with ECB:16] [payload encrypted with CBC:n] [CRC:2]
```

Why encrypt the IV with ECB first? Nobody knows. But it works.

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- `pycryptodome` - For the crypto
- `bluez` / `python3-bluez` - For the Bluetooth

## Legal Stuff

This is for **your own wheels**. Don't be creepy.

- Research and education: Yes
- Your own devices: Yes
- Other people's wheelchairs: Absolutely not

## Links

- Protocol docs: [`doc/` directory](https://github.com/roll2own/m5squared/tree/main/doc)
- Supplementary resources (media, manuals, talk materials and other non-codey stuff: [m5squared-resource repo](https://github.com/roll2own/m5squared-resources)
- 39C3 Talk: *["Pwn2Roll: Who Needs a 595€ Remote When You Have wheelchair.py?"](https://media.ccc.de/v/39c3-pwn2roll-who-needs-a-599-remote-when-you-have-wheelchair-py)*

### Media Coverage

- [[DE] Warum eine Multiple-Sklerose-Erkrankte ihren Rollstuhl hackte](https://www.spiegel.de/netzwelt/hackerkonferenz-39c3-warum-eine-multiple-sklerose-erkrankte-ihren-rollstuhl-hackte-a-169573b3-dbc9-4aed-bc33-1cc39cee6971)
- [[DE] Wie eine Multiple-Sklerose-Erkrankte die Paywall ihres Rollstuhls knackte](https://www.derstandard.at/story/3000000302326/wie-eine-multiple-sklerose-erkrankte-die-paywall-ihres-rollstuhls-knackte)
- [[DE] 39C3: Rollstuhl-Security – Wenn ein QR-Code alle Schutzmechanismen aushebelt](https://www.heise.de/news/39C3-Rollstuhl-Security-Wenn-ein-QR-Code-alle-Schutzmechanismen-aushebelt-11126816.html)
- [[EN] Louis Rossmann: Wheelchairs have paywalls and digital locks now (YouTube video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5yWcXPDJQ7k)

## Security, Safety and Common Sense

This is non-profit research code. No exploits, no vulnerabilities. It's just documentation and tools for interoperability with a protocol that already exists.

The security model here is identical to what the official apps use: if you don't have the QR code, you don't get access. We're not bypassing anything, just using the same protocol with our own code. Your wheels, your keys, your choice of software.

That said, this only applies to your own equipment. Using these tools on someone else's wheelchair without explicit consent isn't just unethical, it might cause serious safety issues. Also: creepy.

The author(s) take responsible disclosure seriously. These are mobility devices that people depend on every day, and that should come before making a point.

Commit message:

README: now with 100% more legal compliance. Add disclaimer, void warranty, pet cat.

README.md, after:

# m5squared aka. wheelchair.py

**Your wheelchair, your rules.**

Python toolkit for the Alber e-motion M25 power-assist wheels. Because paying €595 for a Bluetooth remote that does less than a Python script is absurd.

Presented at 39C3 Hamburg: *["Pwn2Roll: Who Needs a 595€ Remote When You Have wheelchair.py?"](https://media.ccc.de/v/39c3-pwn2roll-who-needs-a-599-remote-when-you-have-wheelchair-py)*

## What This Does

- **Decrypt the "encrypted" Bluetooth protocol:** AES-128-CBC, nothing fancy
- **Replace the €595 ECS remote:** Same features, zero cost, more control
- **Bypass all of the in-app purchases:** All the "premium" features, free
    - Currently we support out-of-the-box: ECS remote, speed increase to 8.5km/h, parking mode. *Cruise* mode and the push counter are possible in theory, but not tested yet. Stay tuned, this will be tested soonish (it's also the ground work for replacing the knob-style remote).
- **Access dealer-only parameters:** Your wheels, your data

### Legal Stuff Corner aka. *The "We Told You So" Section*

- Warranty and Gewährleistung: Using unofficial tools may void them. The manufacturer or reseller will likely not be thrilled if you mention wheelchair.py during a service appointment.
- The Speedenings: 8.5 km/h is faster than 6 km/h. Physics applies. In Germany, electric wheelchairs above 6 km/h require registration when using in the public. This is also the case when one's using the paid feature in the official app. But if you want to break the law, you can do it with our tools, for free.
- Ownership: If your Krankenkasse paid for the device, they technically own it. You're poking at insurance property. They might have opinions, or they might never notice. We don't judge here.
- Safety: These wheels move a human. Cats have nine lives and always land on their feet, you might not have those features. Misconfigured parameters do things.

## The €595 Remote vs. This Script

| Feature                 | Official ECS Remote | wheelchair.py |
| ----------------------- | ------------------- | ------------- |
| Price                   | €595                | Free          |
| Read battery            | Yes                 | Yes           |
| Change assist level     | Yes                 | Yes           |
| Toggle hill hold        | Yes                 | Yes           |
| Read raw sensor data    | No                  | Yes           |
| Adjust drive parameters | No                  | Yes           |
| Works on Linux          | No                  | Obviously     |

## Quick Start

```bash
# Setup (Ubuntu/Debian)
sudo apt install python3.12-venv python3-bluez
python3 -m venv .venv --system-site-packages
.venv/bin/pip install -e .
source .venv/bin/activate

# Get your AES keys (scan the QR codes on your wheel hubs)
python m25_qr_to_key.py "YourQRCodeHere"

# Talk to your wheels
python m25_ecs.py --left-addr AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF --right-addr 11:22:33:44:55:66 \
                  --left-key HEXKEY --right-key HEXKEY
```

## Tools

| Script             | What it does                                      | 
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `m25_qr_to_key.py` | QR code → AES key (their encoding is... creative) |
| `m25_ecs.py`       | The main event: read status, change settings      |
| `m25_decrypt.py`   | Decrypt captured Bluetooth packets                |
| `m25_encrypt.py`   | Encrypt packets for transmission                  |
| `m25_analyzer.py`  | Make sense of the packet soup                     |
| `m25_parking.py`   | Remote movement control (use responsibly)         |
| `m25_bluetooth.py` | Scan, connect, send/receive                       |

## Getting Your Keys

Each wheel has a QR code sticker. That's your key to the kingdom.

1. Scan the QR code (22 characters of proprietary encoding)
2. Run: `python m25_qr_to_key.py "ABCD1234..."`
3. Get a 16-byte hex key
4. Use it with `--left-key` / `--right-key`

Both wheels have different keys. Yes, you need both.

Once you've saved your keys, consider taping over the QR codes. They're the keys to your wheels.

## Protocol TL;DR

Bluetooth SPP on channel 6. Packets look like:

```
[0xEF] [length:2] [IV encrypted with ECB:16] [payload encrypted with CBC:n] [CRC:2]
```

Why encrypt the IV with ECB first? Nobody knows. But it works.

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- `pycryptodome` - For the crypto
- `bluez` / `python3-bluez` - For the Bluetooth

## Legal Stuff

This is for **your own wheels**. Don't be creepy.

- Research and education: Yes
- Your own devices: Yes
- Other people's wheelchairs: Absolutely not

## Links

- Protocol docs: [`doc/` directory](https://github.com/roll2own/m5squared/tree/main/doc)
- Supplementary resources (media, manuals, talk materials and other non-codey stuff: [m5squared-resource repo](https://github.com/roll2own/m5squared-resources)
- 39C3 Talk: *["Pwn2Roll: Who Needs a 595€ Remote When You Have wheelchair.py?"](https://media.ccc.de/v/39c3-pwn2roll-who-needs-a-599-remote-when-you-have-wheelchair-py)*

### Media Coverage

- [[DE] Warum eine Multiple-Sklerose-Erkrankte ihren Rollstuhl hackte](https://www.spiegel.de/netzwelt/hackerkonferenz-39c3-warum-eine-multiple-sklerose-erkrankte-ihren-rollstuhl-hackte-a-169573b3-dbc9-4aed-bc33-1cc39cee6971)
- [[DE] Wie eine Multiple-Sklerose-Erkrankte die Paywall ihres Rollstuhls knackte](https://www.derstandard.at/story/3000000302326/wie-eine-multiple-sklerose-erkrankte-die-paywall-ihres-rollstuhls-knackte)
- [[DE] 39C3: Rollstuhl-Security – Wenn ein QR-Code alle Schutzmechanismen aushebelt](https://www.heise.de/news/39C3-Rollstuhl-Security-Wenn-ein-QR-Code-alle-Schutzmechanismen-aushebelt-11126816.html)
- [[EN] Louis Rossmann: Wheelchairs have paywalls and digital locks now (YouTube video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5yWcXPDJQ7k)

## Security, Safety and Common Sense

This is non-profit research code. No exploits, no vulnerabilities. It's just documentation and tools for interoperability with a protocol that already exists.

The security model here is identical to what the official apps use: if you don't have the QR code, you don't get access. We're not bypassing anything, just using the same protocol with our own code. Your wheels, your keys, your choice of software.

That said, this only applies to your own equipment. Using these tools on someone else's wheelchair without explicit consent isn't just unethical, it might cause serious safety issues. Also: creepy.

The author(s) take responsible disclosure seriously. These are mobility devices that people depend on every day, and that should come before making a point.
